[MUSIC PLAYING]
[REVERBERATING CLANG]
>>LISA GARR: Did you know that
music and sound has the ability
to rearrange
molecular structure,
and the use of sound
as a healing tool
dates back thousands of years?
And the latest research suggests
that sound healing can also
utilize frequencies
for manifestation
and for transformation.
Joining me is sound
healing pioneer
and Grammy-nominated recording
artist Jonathan Goldman.
He's also been named
one of Watkins' 100 most
spiritually influential people.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining me.
>>JONATHAN GOLDMAN:
Lisa, what a blessing
it is to be here with you.
Thank you for having me.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
That sound that you
showed us earlier,
can you bring that back?
>>GOLDMAN: Oh, here we go.
This is a fabulous Tibetan bowl
that has a little bit of water.
And I just [CLANG] hit
it, move it around.
And the dolphins are calling.
>>LISA: It sounds
like you're whistling.
>>GOLDMAN: It does, doesn't it?
>>LISA: That's beautiful.
>>GOLDMAN: It's
an amazing thing.
Not all bowls do it.
Only certain bowls.
We call these dolphin bowls.
>>LISA: Dolphin bowls.
And this is a
Tibetan healing bowl.
>>GOLDMAN: Yes, it is.
>>LISA: It is.
>>GOLDMAN: Or at
least these bowls
are used for so many
different purposes.
>>LISA: How did you
get into sound healing?
Let's talk about that.
It's fascinating.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
I'm going to just
put the bowl down.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GOLDMAN: All right.
This story is a story
that happened around 1979
in Marshfield,
Massachusetts, which
is at the tip of Cape Cod.
And I was playing in
a rock and roll band.
I had just come back from
a break with my band.
I strapped on my
guitar, started playing.
And all of a sudden, I
looked out at the audience,
and I realized that there
was an ambience of negativity
and violence in the audience.
Now, no question, the alcohol
and the other intoxicants
that people were imbibing was
helping induce this negativity.
But also, I realized
that the music
that I was creating at
this particular time
was also doing that.
And I had the thought--
and mind you, I had been
performing professionally
for about 15 years.
And I had the
thought at this time,
what if music could be used
to make people feel better?
And then about a week
later, that thought just
shifted a couple of degrees.
And it was like, what if
sound could be used to heal?
And my life changed.
Doors opened up.
And here I am now,
talking to you.
>>LISA: Well, it really can.
I mean, have you been
to a great concert?
You remember it forever.
And it's that
feeling at the end,
and you just love the music.
It can, for sure.
>>GOLDMAN: And there
are other ways, as well.
Not only through music,
which is a concept
that what we perceive--
I like to oftentimes make a
differentiation between music
and sound.
Why?
Because I like to say
we're all sound healers.
Because oftentimes, when
I say sound healing,
people think, oh, well,
I'm not a trained vocalist.
Or I'm not a trained singer
or a trained musician.
I can't use sound for healing.
But everybody can, because
we can all make a sound.
Something as simple as a hum,
for example, or making a tone
will do it.
And yet, at the same
time, listening to music
is also a way of healing.
>>LISA: But I like that
you differentiate it.
We do.
We have our voices, and our
voices are our sound healing
tools if we choose--
>>GOLDMAN: They are.
>>LISA: --to use them for that.
>>GOLDMAN: Well, there
are two major ways
that sound really can heal us.
The first is through music
or our voice or whatnot,
but somebody else's voice, and
the sound goes into our ear,
into our brain, and affects our
heart rate, our respiration,
and our nervous system.
And that's called
psychoacoustics.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GOLDMAN: And the other is
the sound goes into our body,
goes into us on
a cellular level,
shifts everything from
the molecules to the DNA.
And that's called
vibroacoustics.
And that, for
example, is something
that happens when
we hum or when we
work with some of
these instruments,
like tuning forks or
other types of things.
And they're both
really effective.
>>LISA: Are you aware
of any types of studies
that you use sound
to actually change
the structure of molecules
or physical matter?
>>GOLDMAN: Well, here's a quote.
Because people
nowadays perceive that,
oh, sound healing
is a few years old.
But here's a quote
from "New York
Times," Science section, 1988.
February 8, 1988.
"Sound shaped into
dazzling new tool
can make, break, or
rearrange molecular structure
and levitate objects."
This did not come
from "Neofo Daily."
It literally came from
"The New York Times,"
and you can google this.
And often, I see just
objects like ping pong balls
and whatnot being levitated
by different sounds.
But people perceive that
perhaps the ancients
might have had some real
knowledge with this,
and this is how the
pyramids or Machu Picchu
or any of these
incredible stone objects
that were tremendously
heavy, and they didn't
seem to have the technology--
maybe they did.
Maybe it was sound.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
So you can literally
change the patterns
because of the frequencies
and the waves of sound.
It's a physical thing.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GOLDMAN: It is
a physical thing.
And it's real.
And it is so potent and
powerful, because on a level--
can I take a moment and explain
to you the basic principle
about how sound can heal?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
>>LISA: Yes
>>GOLDMAN: So this begins with
the concept of, what is sound?
>>LISA: OK.
>>GOLDMAN: Sound is a vibration
that travels as a waveform,
and it's measured in
cycles per second,
as are many different
things, including electricity
and light.
And we hear from around 16
of these cycles a second
to around 16,000, OK?
But just because we
can't hear something
doesn't mean that
there isn't a sound.
Our friends in the
ocean, the dolphins,
can make and receive
sounds upwards
of 180,000 cycles a second.
That's 10 times greater than
our highest level of hearing.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GOLDMAN: So I like to say
that everything is in a state
of vibration from the electrons
moving around the nucleus
of an atom--
>>LISA: To the
vibration of a crystal?
It has a frequency.
>>GOLDMAN: Totally.
To planets, distant galaxies
moving around their suns.
They're all moving, and they're
therefore creating a vibration.
Just because we
can't hear it doesn't
mean there isn't a sound.
>>LISA: And you
recommend that there
are various ancient techniques
that have been around forever?
So the sound of the word "aum"
has a wonderful reference
to it.
Can you share with us a
little bit about that?
>>GOLDMAN: Well, there are
basically about three different
what we call seed syllables
that are said to come
from different traditions.
And these different traditions
talk about these seed syllables
as being, "In the beginning was
the word, and the lord said,
let there be light."
From all these
different traditions
throughout the planet,
there's this idea of life,
the universe, and everything
being created solely
through the power of sound.
And "aum" is one of them.
"Ah" is one of them.
And "hu" is another one of them.
And it's very interesting.
>>LISA: Does aum have a certain
multiple syllables to it,
even though it seems--
>>GOLDMAN: Well,
it's interesting,
because it's written A-U-M,
and some people pronounce it
"ah-um."
>>LISA: Right.
>>GOLDMAN: But
here's another one.
I have a book that I wrote
with my beloved wife, Andi,
and it's called "The
Humming Effect."
And it's done very, very nicely.
And as we were basically
researching it,
we were teaching at a
pretty well-known place
called Yogaville.
That's really the name of it.
>>LISA: OK.
>>GOLDMAN: That was established
by the Woodstock guru, Swami
Satchidananda.
I am a child of the
Woodstock Nation,
so I remember being there.
And he led half a million
people in chanting.
It was pretty cool.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GOLDMAN: And we were there.
And there's a book
called the "Yoga Sutras"
by a guy named Patanjali.
And every guru, every
spiritual master,
has done their own translation.
And he did his.
We were teaching there, and
I happened to open it up.
And I picked it up.
It was sutra 1.27.
It said, the original
sound of creation
was pranava, the
humming of prana.
They had to give it a name,
so they called it "aum."
So literally, the aum
came from the hum.
And if you think about it,
"aum," almost the same.
>>LISA: The hum is
incorporated in it.
>>GOLDMAN: There you go.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
There's actually
a video here you
can watch where Jonathan
is demonstrating
the hum and the
aum in a workshop.
Take a look.
>>GOLDMAN: If you
examine the basic tenets
of the various spiritual
traditions on this planet,
you find a commonality
in their understanding
that life, the universe, and
everything was created solely
through the power of sound.
I've been in this field
for about 30 years,
and I've seen the power of
sound in extraordinary ways.
People always ask me, well,
what sort of conditions
can be healed by sound?
And what I like to quote for
them is, believe it or not,
a science article from "The
New York Times" from 1988.
Yes, my friends, there was
life before five years ago.
1988.
And it said, "sound
shaped into dazzling tool
can make, break, or rearrange
molecular structure."
If you can rearrange
molecular structure,
what sort of situations,
conditions, et cetera,
maladies cannot be put back
into harmony with sound?
[HUMMING SOUND]
What we're going
to do in a moment
is to sound forth with this "ah"
sound encoded with the energy
of appreciation, of
love, of compassion,
of gratitude for the purpose
of global harmonization.
Please join me.
[CROWD VOCALIZING]
We all know that the brain puts
out an electromagnetic field.
But the heart also has
been found to put out
an electromagnetic field.
And this electromagnetic
field has
been measured to be up to 5,000
times greater than the field
of the brain when it is
in a state of coherence
or when the heart and
the brain are in frame,
when they're in
synchrony together.
One of the keys to this
is feeling gratitude,
appreciation, compassion.
And what's really, from
my perspective, important
is the fact that
there is a reason why
the prayer on our
planet is vocalized.
Sometimes it's whispered.
Sometimes it's spoken.
Sometimes it's chanted.
Sometimes it's sung.
But it is vocalized.
And the reason for
this is simple.
Sound amplifies the
power of prayer.
All we need is about
8,000 conscious people
working together,
from my perspective,
making intentionalized
sound to make
shifts and changes on our planet
that have global repercussions.
So I share this
with you, because we
can make a difference.
We heal the planet,
we heal ourselves.
It's our choice.
>>LISA: With that beautiful
sound and that encompassing,
it feels like it's the
frequency of our Earth, of Gaia.
Is it?
>>GOLDMAN: It's so interesting,
because many people have
attributed certain specific
frequencies or cycles
per second to the aum.
I don't think so,
because if I went
"aum," "aum," "aum," those
are all different frequencies.
So if aum was restricted
to a particular frequency,
then I couldn't be making it.
But I do believe that there
is a frequency of Gaia.
And in fact, this comes from
the scientific tradition.
And it's called the
Schumann resonance.
And what is the
Schumann resonance?
>>LISA: Yes.
I was just about to ask.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
In the 1950s, this
German scientist
by the name of Otto
Schumann speculated
that there was a frequency,
an electromagnetic frequency,
between the ionosphere and the
earth itself in that cavity.
And later, in 1960,
a team of scientists
proved that there was actually
this Schumann resonance.
And it's 7.83 cycles a second.
Now, remember, I
told you that we
hear from around 16 to 16,000.
So 7.83 is below our
level of hearing.
But I'll basically show you a
way that we can manifest this.
But first, I want to also
suggest that people say, well,
the Schumann resonance
is shifting and changing.
Yes.
Since the 1950s and '60s,
the Schumann resonance--
7.83 is the baseline,
but it's gone up
or it's gone down depending
upon whether there are sunspots,
whether there's a
lot of lightning
on the earth, what
weather conditions are.
It shifts and changes.
So it's not static.
But at the same
time, it's really
staying at this
particular thing.
In order for the Schumann
resonance to change,
we'd either have to
change the speed of light
or the diameter of the Earth.
>>LISA: OK.
Significant.
>>GOLDMAN: Thus far,
that hasn't happened.
>>LISA: How is that measured?
Do you know?
>>GOLDMAN: No.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>GOLDMAN: I mean, I've read
it, but I've totally forgotten.
>>LISA: Oh, don't
worry about it.
>>GOLDMAN: So it's all right.
>>LISA: Just curious.
I mean, I imagine there
is certain technology
that it was measured.
>>GOLDMAN: Oh, yeah.
Totally.
>>LISA: How does that relate
to our frequency in the body?
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
I think that it's
very, very much--
it's been speculated that a lot
of insects and a lot of animals
really resonate very heavily
to this Schumann resonance
and that, indeed,
of course, people--
whether they call it earthing
or grounding, just walking
the ground and absorbing that
is so healing and so positive.
I mean, a lot of people
get, shall we say,
very unattached to the normal,
natural healing frequencies
of the Earth because there's
so many other frequencies being
bounced at us.
>>LISA: Oh, now,
there is, especially.
When you think
about animals, they
can really relate to the
frequency of the Earth.
They're constantly
on it and in it.
And so they know when storms are
coming and fires and so forth.
But yes, there is
this bombardment
of additional
frequencies that we
have had to deal with
in the last 20 years.
And how does that
impact our frequency?
>>GOLDMAN: Well, I mean, I
think that, among other things,
it's really important to work
with sound and other things,
including walking in
nature, to be able to--
>>LISA: Restore it.
>>GOLDMAN: Totally.
And I have actually
created a couple
of different sets
of tuning forks
that work with sound
to bring this Schumann
resonance into our field,
which I think is very healing.
>>LISA: Perfect.
>>GOLDMAN: And it's not only
me, but a lot of people.
Because I don't do
things just by myself.
I try them on other people, and
they give feedback and reports
back.
And then I go,
OK, this is right.
I'll release this.
>>LISA: Beautiful.
So first, I want to ask
you before we do this,
because I want to
use the tuning forks
and really experience this.
But can we set an
intention beforehand,
like you've mentioned?
>>GOLDMAN: Can I tell
another story now?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
So in 1985-- wow.
>>LISA: That was a while ago.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
If I'm a child of
the Woodstock Nation,
it was not that long ago.
>>LISA: It feels
like just yesterday.
Got it.
>>GOLDMAN: In 1985, I
went to Leslie University
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
And I created a
master's degree program
researching the uses of
sound and music for healing.
And at the time, I had
probably a collection of papers
about yo big which were
different systems that people
had used to heal different
organs, different frequencies
that they'd used to heal
the different organs,
different mantras
and tones they'd
used to resonate the chakras,
the energy centers of the body.
Now, I come from a
family of doctors.
Grandfather, father, and
brother are all medical doctors.
>>LISA: Me, too.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
And so I'm pretty
scientifically oriented.
And I thought, oh, this
is going to be easy.
And what I did was I began
to arrange this stuff
and correlate this stuff.
And all of a sudden-- now,
mind you, this was a time ago.
So the computer was using
a DOS operating system.
>>LISA: OK, OK.
>>GOLDMAN: Which basically
was a dark screen
with amber letters on it.
And I remember this
cursor was blinking
back and forth as I
came to the realization
that these different frequencies
didn't align with each other.
You'd have one doctor
using a set of frequencies
for a particular organ
and another doctor
using a completely
different set of frequencies
for the same organ, yet
they're both claiming success.
You'd have one
spiritual master who
would be using a
mantra for one chakra
and another spiritual
master using
a completely different
mantra for the same chakra
or perhaps the same mantra
for a different chakra.
And I was sitting
there, Lisa, in a state
of intellectual angst
thinking, how can this be?
How can this be?
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>GOLDMAN: When I heard
this inner voice--
I love this inner voice--
when I heard this inner voice.
And the inner voice
said, it is not
only the frequency of the
sound that creates the effect.
It is also the intention of
the person making and receiving
the sound.
And I wrote down the words,
"frequency plus intent
equals healing."
It was blinking on this thing.
>>LISA: Great.
Now, don't we all have different
frequencies as human beings?
I mean, you have a different
vibration than I do.
OK, we'll go Woodstock.
You have a different
vibe than I do.
>>GOLDMAN: Hey, you know,
I spoke to Bruce Lipton
at one point.
We were talking.
And I said, Bruce, what's
the secret to it all?
And he began to sing The
Beach Boys' "Good Vibrations."
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>GOLDMAN: But one of my books,
"The Seven Secrets of Sound
Healing," has a chapter called,
"We Are All Unique Vibratory
Beings."
>>LISA: Makes sense.
It makes perfect sense.
>>GOLDMAN: And usually, when
I'm teaching a workshop, one
of the first things I'll
ask is, OK, how many of
you are allergic to penicillin?
And between 5% and 20% of the
people will raise their hand.
And I'll say, OK, if we perceive
that everything in the universe
is in a state of
vibration and everything,
therefore, is in a waveform,
then penicillin is ultimately
a waveform.
It's a frequency.
>>LISA: Right, right.
>>GOLDMAN: And for 80% to 95% of
you, that waveform is healing.
But for 5% to 20% of you,
that waveform is toxic.
And I say that simply
because whether it's
food or aromatherapy or
whatever you're using,
we can't treat
everyone the same way.
Wouldn't it be wonderful?
I've never found a magic bullet.
>>LISA: Well, but
it is measurable,
which is fascinating.
So you know when
you find somebody
that you just get along
with and you love their vibe
and you like their
being, their frequency?
That's actually
measurable now, isn't it?
>>GOLDMAN: Well,
what do you say?
We're in resonance
with each other.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: I resonate
to that person.
And talking about
resonance, I just
want to get back
for a moment to one
of the concepts of how sound
heals on a molecular level, OK?
Everything is in
state of vibration,
including our body, every
organ, every bone, every tissue.
Every part of our body is
in a state of vibration.
When we're in health, we
say we're in sound health.
>>LISA: Sound mind, sound health
Correct, correct, correct.
>>GOLDMAN: So we're like this
incredible orchestra that's
playing this wonderful
symphony of the self.
Ah, it's wonderful.
It's great until
the second violin
player loses their sheet music.
>>LISA: Oh.
And you go, ah!
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah, exactly.
The second violin player
loses their sheet music.
Pretty soon, the entire
string section sounds off.
orchestra sounds off.
And this would be akin to, if
you like, a part of our body
vibrating out of its natural,
healthy resonant frequency.
It's vibrating out of
ease, out of harmony.
We say it's diseased.
>>LISA: You just described
how illness happens.
>>GOLDMAN: And the basic,
simple, bottom line
of using sound as
a healing modality
is, what if we could give
this string player back
their sheet music?
What if we could somehow restore
the correct resonant frequency
to that part of our body
which is vibrating out
of its normal, healthy range?
And bottom line, I like toys.
Humans like toys.
Tuning forks, bowls, et cetera.
But we all have the most
extraordinary healing
instrument.
And it doesn't require
electricity, batteries.
It's user free.
Doesn't cost anything.
And the owner's manual,
that's our voice.
>>LISA: Our voice.
>>GOLDMAN: So we
can all learn to use
our voice, such
as a hum or [HUMS]
and to project it with intent
down to a part of our body
that is vibrating out of it's
correct resonant frequency.
And I've seen
extraordinary things.
I've experienced
And I've seen
extraordinary things
happen with the voice along
with tuning forks or any
of these things.
>>LISA: Well, let's go back
to the book that you have,
"The Humming Effect."
And you've actually
determined, along with Andi,
that it could actually
increase oxygen. It
can reduce cortisol, which means
reducing stress, all sorts of--
even create nitric oxide.
>>GOLDMAN: Which I love, because
nitric oxide is a vasodilator,
which means that it
allows the blood to--
>>LISA: More oxygen, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah, and
the blood to go out.
And also enhances
melatonin, which
helps us sleep and also is used
for treatment of depression.
Oxytocin, which is the
fabulous trust hormone.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: And
release of endorphins,
which are those natural
painkillers that happen.
So just humming can do this.
As my son would say to
me, simple yet effective.
>>LISA: Let's hear it.
If you can, give us a
demonstration, because you're
a master sound healer.
>>GOLDMAN: Right.
But we can hum together.
Because what I
suggest when people do
this is simply because people--
everybody hums.
Everybody hums.
This is why I wrote the book.
Andi and I were
going, OK, what is
a sound that everybody
makes that they
don't judge themselves?
God bless our TV
shows now that--
they have a good voice.
They have a bad voice.
They have a pitchy
voice and whatnot.
Oh, my goodness gracious.
So many people are so, shall we
say, uptight about their voice.
But I really don't know anybody
who judges just themselves
when they hum.
It's like, I'm a good hummer.
I'm a bad hummer.
No.
Everybody can hum.
And bottom line, very few
people have consciously hummed.
What do I mean by that?
[HUMMING] People are humming.
[HUMMING]
What I suggest is that
they just simply take
a couple of deep breaths
and close their eyes
and then just hum
for maybe five times.
[HUMMING] And
while they're doing
that, just become aware of
where the sound is vibrating
in your body.
And most of the time, it'll
be somewhere in the sinus
cavity or in the
head or the throat.
Here's one for you.
I just have to do this.
And I'll do this
for you, because I
don't want to embarrass you.
But I'm going to hum, and then
I'm going to pinch my nose.
You can do it with me.
Most people don't
know about this.
Most advanced sound
healers don't know
or didn't know about this
till they read our book.
I'm going to hum, and then
I'm going to pinch my nose.
You ready?
>>LISA: OK.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: [HUMMING] You cannot
hum with your nose pinched.
Because if you're
doing it properly,
if your lips are sealed, then
where is the air going to go?
So it's kind of an
interesting phenomena.
>>LISA: It's all about the
air and the circulation
and the vocal cords
and everything.
>>GOLDMAN: Sure.
Well, what Andi and I found,
actually, it was quite amazing.
The more we got into humming--
this is the first book
that's ever been written
on the subject of humming.
And we figured that,
OK, why is that?
Well, obviously, everybody
figures that they can hum.
But also, we figured, all right,
if we did that first chapter--
it's what they call
peer-reviewed information
on the medical effects of
sound and particularly humming.
But the reality is
that we found out
that there's an advanced
yogic technique called
bhramari pranayama.
Sounds pretty cool.
What is that?
It's blocking your ears, closing
your eyes, and [HUMMING]..
And it's said to have all
sorts of amazing effects.
And it's part of what they
call Shabd Yoga technique where
one can basically travel to
higher planes of consciousness.
Very simple, and yet
very, very powerful.
>>LISA: Now, you
talked about this
being the synaptic
connections in the brain.
And this is the psychosomatic?
What is it called?
>>GOLDMAN: That would
be psychoacoustics
with vibroacoustics.
From my perspective, this
is a vibroacoustics thing.
After Lesley University, I
went to another university.
And I was actually involved
in a program, a PhD program,
on sound as a healing modality.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GOLDMAN: And unfortunately,
my first book came out.
And it basically became
rather well-known,
so I basically quit doing
that and went on tour.
But what I was going to be doing
was I even had a term for it.
It was called harmonic
intonation therapy,
and it was going to be showing
that self-created sounds create
new synapses in the
brain to be used
for treatment of
strokes, Alzheimer's,
all sorts of other stuff.
And I'm back now.
We have a whole chapter on
"The Humming Effect" called
"The Humming Hypothesis"
showing that there has been,
now, research with this.
>>LISA: Projects.
Mm-hmm.
>>GOLDMAN: And it's quite cool.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
>>GOLDMAN: And there's,
of course, stories.
People have sent
back stories to us
beforehand and then after
reading the book about having
had some sort of
disability and humming out
of the disability,
the brain trauma.
>>LISA: There's zero
downside in trying it.
I mean, it's so easy.
Let's do this, if we can.
And as you're
listening and watching,
set your intention, as well,
and listen to the frequencies
that Jonathan's going to share
with us through the tuning
forks.
And we can maybe
set an intention
while we're hearing this.
>>GOLDMAN: Well, this is true.
So would you like
my demonstrating
the Schumann resonance Gaia
frequency tuning forks in you?
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
This is great.
It is going to be my
pleasure to do this.
And I'm going to take these
tuning forks over here.
And I'm going to say that these
are two different tuning forks.
We say that 7.83 was
the Schumann resonance.
>>LISA: Schumann
resonance, mm-hmm.
>>GOLDMAN: So the
difference between them
is 7.83 cycles a second.
And this is a frequency,
as I mentioned,
that is below our
level of hearing.
But at the same time, we can
perceive the sound as kind
of like a vibrato or
a "wah-wah" sound.
So if I may, Lisa, I'm going to
ask you to pull your hair back.
>>LISA: OK.
Are these different,
slightly different?
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
So they're both based upon
a harmonic, which means
a geometric multiple of 7.83.
But they're different by 7.83.
And because they differ by 7.83,
they put out a third tone--
this tone and this
tone, and then it's
going to put out
a third tone that
is 7.83, which goes into
our ears and into our brain
and literally causes
our brain to resonate
to this frequency, which
means that we can resonate
to the Schumann resonance
by listening to the sound.
Are you ready?
>>LISA: The Gaia frequency.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: The Gaia frequency.
>>LISA: The Gaia frequency.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
So first, I'm going
to just hit one.
[RINGING]
And we're going to
bring it to your ear.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>GOLDMAN: And you hear
it's just one tone.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
Now, the other ear, if I may.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
[RINGING]
>>GOLDMAN: Sounds very similar.
>>LISA: Mm-hmm.
That's wonderful.
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
It's a nice tone.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Uh-huh.
>>GOLDMAN: But now, watch the
magic when I put them together.
Because you will hear this
all of a sudden vibration
or vibrato or beat
frequency between the two.
And this is, if you like,
the Schumann resonance.
I'm going to ask you, as
you listen to it, maybe
to close your eyes and just take
a breath and set an intention.
>>LISA: Set an intention.
>>GOLDMAN: Whatever
you would like to.
How's that?
>>LISA: Sounds great.
>>GOLDMAN: Would you mind
pulling your hair back again?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
For sure.
>>GOLDMAN: Thank you.
[RINGING]
>>LISA: Wow.
It's like being in a dome.
That's awesome.
>>GOLDMAN: And your
eyes are actually
exhibiting what they call
REM, or Rapid Eye Movement,
which is an
indication that you're
going to an altered
state of consciousness.
>>LISA: Oh, yes instantly.
It instantly takes you up there.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah, because this
is basically the theta brainwave
state, which is where a
lot of deep healing occurs.
So these are very cool.
I really like them.
>>LISA: It felt like
I was in a big dome.
And I could feel
the spaciousness
of a big, planetary
type of dome.
>>GOLDMAN: Nice.
Connecting to the
energy, the Mother Earth.
Back in the 1960s, there
was a wonderful scientist
by the name of
Itzhak Bentov, who
first talked about the
Schumann resonance and the fact
that if we could somehow attune
to the Schumann resonance,
we could attune to the
energetics of the Earth
and perhaps even attune
to the, shall we say,
information and consciousness
stored in this Gaia matrix.
>>LISA: Yes.
Information and
the healing of it.
>>GOLDMAN: And the healing.
>>LISA: Yes.
And, I mean, not only to
understand the consciousness,
but to really restore
the balance again.
And if we do this collectively,
it is really, truly so easy.
>>GOLDMAN: It is so easy.
Thank you.
Yeah, that's it.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Now, how can this relate
to the chakras of the body?
Can you explain a
little bit about that?
>>GOLDMAN: OK.
With the chakras
of the body, what
I did as an experiment-- because
of almost everything that I do
is sort of an
experiment, because I
don't want to do something
that somebody has done before.
>>LISA: OK.
It's the innovator in you.
I love it.
>>GOLDMAN: Well, yeah.
If somebody has done it
before, why should I--
I don't need to copy it.
I want to do something new.
So I thought, OK, let me
do a recording-- actually
called chakra chants,
which is over here.
This was back in the late 1990s.
And it won all sorts of awards.
It has since continued
on winning awards
and being a best seller.
But the crazy thing is
that, with it, what I
did was I took about a dozen or
more of the different systems
for resonating the chakras
that I was talking about
before that didn't line up.
But I put them all
together to see anyway.
I work with vowel sounds.
I work with what are
called bij mantras.
I work with different
frequencies.
I work with all sorts
of different things.
And I put them together.
And then it seems to be
very effective at resonating
each of the chakras.
But I would like to suggest that
with chakra chants or any sort
of chakra modality, I believe
we are fluid, resonant beings.
So our frequencies can
shift from day to day
depending upon what we've
eaten or how well we've slept
or if we're jet lagged or
whatnot, et cetera, et cetera.
So these things can
potentially even change.
So it's important not to get
too locked into any frequency
as being the right frequency.
>>LISA: But you did
experiment with various ones.
>>GOLDMAN: Totally.
>>LISA: Did you layer those
tracks on top of each other?
>>GOLDMAN: Yes, I did.
Yes, I did.
>>LISA: That's fascinating.
>>GOLDMAN: And I was really--
it was an experiment.
>>LISA: It came out.
>>GOLDMAN: I didn't know
what it was going to be like.
And it was rather symphonic.
>>LISA: Could we
actually choose one
that we could play
to the audience?
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
I think you may have a little
video of something in--
>>LISA: MP3 of it, yes.
We do.
>>GOLDMAN: This actually
also has crystal bowls
involved in it, as well.
And this is the energy
of the solar plexus,
which, for this one, we use
the keynote of E on a piano.
It's tuned slightly
different, as well as you'll
hear my voice chanting
these different things as
well the bowls.
And it's pretty soothing.
>>LISA: It's really cool.
Watch this.
You can either watch the really
cool graphics and images,
or you can just listen to
it with your eyes closed.
Listen up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GOLDMAN: Did you like it?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
That was really amazing.
And I'm sure that it
transported people.
Now, you have a way
for people to be
able to listen to that
at any time, right?
>>GOLDMAN: Well, indeed.
We have a website, which
is HealingSounds.com.
That's "sounds," with an
S at the end of it, .com.
And we have a free download
called the "seven-minute chakra
tune-up" that people can get.
And they can get a
free download of it.
And when they do, there are
people who use it every day.
Seven minutes long, one
chakra per minute, going up.
>>LISA: Perfect.
>>GOLDMAN: And it's
really, really powerful.
And there are people
who do it as part
of their daily practice
of healing, of meditation
and whatnot.
And I'm just very, very
grateful that there's
been such a positive
response from that.
>>LISA: A chance to
awaken in your body,
or is it something you want
to do before you go to sleep?
Or both?
>>GOLDMAN: You could probably
do it when you wake up.
You could probably do
it when you go to sleep.
People do it at all sorts--
>>LISA: That's great.
>>GOLDMAN: The only
thing I don't suggest
is that you do it when
you're driving in your car.
>>LISA: Right.
Right, no, that makes sense.
You have such a beautiful
dedication to sound.
And did you create something
called World Sound Healing Day?
>>GOLDMAN: So, Lisa,
can I tell you a story?
>>LISA: You're good at that.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: So there
is, oftentimes,
with me, when I create a
project, an inner voice that
suggests that, hey, why don't
you try doing this or that?
Make some tuning forks
that are slightly out
of frequency, or
work with humming
as a thing, because
nobody's written
a book on humming before.
Or do this, or do that.
Well, I was in deep
meditation one day.
And this inner voice says, OK--
I don't know if they said "OK."
They said, well, you have spent
the last 20 years bringing
awareness of how people can
use sound to heal themselves
on a personal level.
And you've done an adequate job.
They might have even
said "very good."
I don't remember.
>>LISA: Apparently.
On the 100 most influential
people list, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: But
they said, now, it
is time for you to incorporate
using sound to heal the planet.
I said, wow, that
sounds really cool.
My transmission was shut off.
>>LISA: That's it.
Go.
Go with that.
>>GOLDMAN: Right.
So I had to figure
out what to do.
How can you heal the planet?
I thought, OK, what if we
got a whole bunch of people
throughout the planet?
And what if we had
them make a sound that
was encoded with the energy
of love and compassion?
>>LISA: OK.
An entire day like that, right?
>>GOLDMAN: Well, and
I said, OK, what day
would I want to choose?
Well, how about Valentine's Day?
And how about if we
basically had people
send a sonic valentine
to the planet?
And there was a couple
steps to this whole thing.
We've had our 17th one now.
And there are literally
thousands and thousands
of people in
hundreds of countries
throughout the planet
who take part in this.
And oftentimes, we have them
make this "ah" sound at--
>>LISA: A specific time?
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah, oftentimes,
at noon eastern time.
But at the same time, we also
say, or noon your own time
or any time that you want.
Here in Boulder, we do an event,
as well, from 5:00 to 6:00,
because as we know, time and
space are merely constructs
of the less ascended mind.
And when you reach higher
consciousness, which I haven't,
incidentally-- but if you
reach higher consciousness,
time and space are illusions.
And anyway, we make a
sound encoded with love.
Now, here's the do.
There is, as I'm
sure you're aware,
a technique, a very
easy technique,
of causing the heart and the
brain, the brain and the heart,
to go into a state of
coherence, which means
that it's vibrating together.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: And
when that happens,
the electromagnetic field around
goes anywhere from 50 to 500
to some people even perceive
of 5,000 times greater
than normal.
So my wife, Andi, and I, for
example, will lead people.
And we'll have them do this
lovely technique that employs
visualization and breath.
And then we have
them make the sound.
And this is just one
of those inner knowings
that I have not actually
investigated scientifically
to see, is this true?
But I'm telling you that sound
amplifies the power of prayer.
Sound amplifiers the
power of meditation.
>>LISA: That makes sense.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: There is a reason
why the different prayers
on our planet are vocalized.
>>LISA: Yes.
They all have sounds related to
them or prayers or words, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: Chanted.
>>LISA: Chants, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: Whispered, spoken.
>>LISA: So the voice
connects the frequency
of the heart and the mind.
>>GOLDMAN: And it helps, also,
focus the intention of it.
So here, we have people
throughout the planet--
>>LISA: All on the same day.
>>GOLDMAN: Making this
sound, this "ah" sound,
the heart-centered sound.
And it seems to
have some effect.
I will acknowledge,
for example, that one
of the things that has occurred
was that at one point--
there's a wonderful thing
called the Global Consciousness
Project.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: And they work with
these random number generators.
And people always says, what
are random number generators?
They generate random numbers.
Actually, no, they don't.
They generate zeros and ones.
I always thought it
was random numbers,
but it's just zeros and ones.
And it's as though
you're flipping a coin.
And you flip a coin
100 times, you're
going to get 50 heads, 50 tails.
Well, 100 times,
this thing will go
50 ones, 50 zeros
except when there
are events of high compassion.
>>LISA: That's a great
way of describing that.
Yes.
>>GOLDMAN: And then high
excitement, like the Super
Bowl.
>>LISA: Compassion.
>>GOLDMAN: High compassion.
When that occurs, the random
numbers become less random.
Now, if you were to graph or
chart 50 zeros and 50 ones,
you'd get a straight line.
And they, for example, have
done World Sound Healing Day
a few times, and it
looks like Mount Everest.
And that's kind of interesting.
Now, of course, the scientists
involved in this refuse
to say-- well this
is interesting.
That's as far as they will get.
But they suggest that
something is going on,
but they will not
suggest what it is.
But I would like to suggest that
there is some sort of interface
between our consciousness
and the consciousness
of our planet.
>>LISA: Well, that
was clear on 9/11,
where they looked at a random
number generator afterwards.
>>GOLDMAN: That's right.
>>LISA: And it had
a significant spike.
And this actually was
a few minutes before,
which was fascinating.
>>GOLDMAN: Totally.
I think, actually, three
or four hours before.
>>LISA: Hours.
>>GOLDMAN: And it
was interesting.
I was actually Boston a
couple of weeks after that.
And I got a phone
call from a fellow.
And he said, we're down in
New York, and we're in trauma.
And could you please come down?
So I flew down.
And I taught all these people
from the Metropolitan Opera
and whatnot how to use
sound as a healing modality.
It's so interesting.
So I spoke to him last night.
He's still into doing this.
And we're speculating on
doing a World Sound Healing
Day that is literally happening
on video throughout the day.
What a lovely thing
that would be.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes, absolutely.
And so this happens
frequently-- well,
World Sound Healing
Day is every year.
You have a chance.
And it's Valentine's
Day in the US.
And you can transmit
this beautiful sound
and get into harmony with the
earth and with the people on it
and transmit healing
and receive healing.
And I think that's
a beautiful idea.
>>GOLDMAN: It's interesting.
My friend was
suggesting-- he said,
maybe you don't want to
do it on Valentine's Day,
because so many people are
involved in doing other things.
I said, yes.
And I said, what's
interesting, too,
is that on Valentine's
Day, there's a lot of love.
But there's also a lot
of sadness from people
who don't have partners.
>>LISA: Yes.
Or loved ones who
have passed on.
Mm-hmm.
>>GOLDMAN: Maybe
you want to choose
a date that is less charged.
I said, well I'll
think about it.
But it was an
interesting concept.
>>LISA: No, I love it.
I love it on that day,
because it gives us
a chance to not only
focus love on each other--
which should happen
all the time,
not just on one
day of the year--
but to also focus on
the love in the planet.
>>GOLDMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: So you were
involved with the project
with Gregg Braden called
"The Divine Name."
>>GOLDMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And this is a very
sacred project, I'm aware.
>>GOLDMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: And I would love
to hear your experience
about the divine name.
>>GOLDMAN: Lisa, are you
ready for another story?
>>LISA: Apparently, we are, yes.
You have great stories.
>>GOLDMAN: So, in the 1990s--
and I don't know
the exact day now.
Sometimes, I actually
can remember a--
>>LISA: Specific, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: --specific
day for something.
But this was happening.
I had just attended a
sound healing symposium.
And I was sleeping on the couch
of my dear friends, Don Beaman
and Sarah Benson, who were great
megases of sound and the arts.
They're no longer on the planet.
But I was awakening
from this dream.
This voice said to
me, would you please
sound the chakras going
from your crown to your root
and back up?
And as I may have
mentioned, I can tell you
the date on this one, which
was March 21, 1986 I first
got this system
vowel sounds that I
used to go up the chakras.
And they've almost
universally been accepted,
which is very interesting.
>>LISA: Yes, yes, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: But I'd
always been going up,
so I'd never gone from here.
So I literally had
to write it down.
>>LISA: And reverse it.
>>GOLDMAN: And then
I made the sound.
Two things happened.
The first thing was
that, of course,
the energy went from the top of
my head to the base of my spine
and then back up again.
But also, I heard a
sound that sounded
like this ancient, supposedly
personal sacred name
of the divine that had been
given to Moses on Mount Sinai
and had literally been
banned from the Bible.
And I said, wow, have I
rediscovered the sacred sound?
>>LISA: Or tapped into it, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
And so what did I do?
Nothing at all, because it
was just too frequent for me.
>>LISA: Too much?
>>GOLDMAN: It was too much.
I said, oh, I don't want
this responsibility.
And then Gregg Braden,
who's a friend of mine,
was having dinner with my
wife, Andi, and I, and I said--
we had attended
a lecture of his,
and he was talking about the god
code, the sacred name of god.
I said to him, Gregg, I think
I've actually discovered
the sound of this name.
And he said, would you
have a recording of it?
I said, no.
I said, but I will record
it for you if you promise
to make sure that nobody--
and you can use
it for workshops,
but nobody records it.
And he said, no problem.
So I went to my
studio, and I did
this recording of the
divine name, which
is very, very powerful.
>>LISA: It was the frequency
of your voice with the chakras
from the top down.
>>GOLDMAN: Going back and down.
And I'm not going to do
it now, just because I
like to, if you like,
do it only under really
sacred circumstance.
>>LISA: Yes, of course.
Of course.
>>GOLDMAN: But what had happened
was I gave him this recording,
and he played it in workshops.
And people were having
extraordinary experiences--
healings, deep meditations,
et cetera, et cetera.
But I guess somebody might have
had one of those little pocket
recorders, and they recorded it.
And all of a sudden,
it was on the internet.
And I said to him, hm.
I said, well, if it's
on the internet now,
the least I can do is make the
best, highest quality recording
of the divine name, which I did.
And then I ultimately--
a few years later,
this inner voice said,
we now want you to
start teaching people
how to make this sound and to
write a book called "The Divine
Name" so that people
can ultimately
use it to bring themselves to
higher levels of consciousness.
>>LISA: Well it, sounds
like it was to be shared.
If it came through to you
and just to be held with you
wouldn't really make sense
for the planet to really heal.
It would need to be shared.
>>GOLDMAN: Yes.
Thank you.
And what's so
interesting about this
is that even though it's said to
be the name that Moses received
from the burning bush--
and the first thing
that the burning bush
says is, I am that I am.
But then it goes on to
say, my name is and--
spelled out in Hebrew
is yod, he, waw, he.
And this is the name I
am meant to be remembered
from generation to generation.
So it's like, goodness gracious,
what an extraordinary thing.
And it's also a purely--
OK.
So here's where I knew I
was really onto something
is I'd made vowel sounds.
But Hebrew is, by itself,
a language of consonants.
>>LISA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
>>GOLDMAN: So I figured
I must have just
been imagining the whole
thing till I bought myself
a book on teaching
yourself biblical Hebrew,
because I'm not very good
with other languages.
I was fine with
the first chapter.
the second chapter.
The third chapter was
like, the use of the vowel
sounds in ancient Hebrew.
And they said, in
ancient Hebrew,
the yod, the he, and the
waw were vowel sounds.
And when they were
used in this context--
and it was the exact same sound.
>>LISA: That you experienced.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
And I thought, oh,
my goodness gracious.
Because I love to have, if
you like, 3D backup of what's
going on.
Otherwise, I have
a good imagination.
>>LISA: Well, that's
a beautiful story.
Thank you for sharing.
We do have this video
to share with you.
But before we play
this, I'd like
you to explain what
people can do in order
to embody or respect the
resonance of the sound.
>>GOLDMAN: Well, the
first thing I want to say
is that because
vowels are universal,
this is not related simply
to the Abrahamic traditions
of Christianity,
Islam, and Judaism.
It's global.
And in fact, I've had
people from all sorts
of different traditions,
from the Hindu tradition
to the Native
American, going, yeah,
we work with this
sound, et cetera.
And second of all, just
breathe in the energy of that.
If you can, feel the sound
going from the top of your head
to the base your
spine and back up.
And visualize connecting
with the divine.
That's why I like to
call it the divine name.
I like to call it a
hotline to the divine.
Real quick, before
we listen to it--
so a question is,
why did it disappear?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>GOLDMAN: And in my book, I
have a whole chapter on that.
Because there's a whole line
of thought about the fact
that it was such
a powerful sound
that the political priestcraft
decided that they weren't
needed if people had the sound.
So they took it away.
>>LISA: Because it's
a direct link to god.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
>>LISA: It can be a
direct link to god.
>>GOLDMAN: It can be.
>>LISA: That's beautiful, rather
than going through anyone.
And I can understand
that this frequency
isn't owned by any one person.
It was never meant to be.
And the word of
god is very sacred.
And your connection and your
individual experience with this
is what matters.
So just ground yourself
and center yourself
and close your eyes
and take this in.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[VOCALIZING]
I hope you enjoyed that.
And I would love to
see your comments.
We have a little comments
section on the top there.
You can also share
your experience
and tell me what that
was like for you,
because I'd love to see
that and read your comments.
It's fantastic.
I love hearing from you.
And thank you for
allowing us to share that.
>>GOLDMAN: Oh, thank you, Lisa.
And I just want to suggest
that there are these things.
My first book was called
"Healing Sounds," subtitled
"The Power of Harmonics."
And harmonics are, if you
like, geometric multiples
of sounds that are created.
So when we hear a sound, we're
not actually hearing one sound.
We're hearing a composite
of different frequencies,
much as when you take
a prism and you hold it
into white light.
It breaks it into the whole,
if you like, Roy G. Biv--
>>LISA: Like a rainbow.
>>GOLDMAN: --rainbow spectrum.
Well, just the same way,
there are, if you like--
with each vowel sound,
there are harmonics.
And there are harmonics that are
most stressed, or pronounced,
called formants.
So when people heard
that, they probably
heard these very strange other
sounds, maybe hearing something
like a flute or
something like that.
That was actually my voice
creating these harmonics.
>>LISA: Wow.
Fantastic.
You shared a story
with me that I'd
love you to share about
your voice and the sound
of the didgeridoo, essentially.
And that you can-- if
you could share this,
because you're turning red.
That's great.
>>GOLDMAN: So OK.
This is a story that
happened in 1986.
>>LISA: We're back in the '80s.
OK.
>>GOLDMAN: We are.
>>LISA: We've been in
the '80s this whole time.
This is great.
>>GOLDMAN: Right.
That's OK.
A lot happened in the '80s.
And the Gyume monks came
to the United States
for the first time.
And we recorded them in
this recording studio
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
And they did this very deep--
we sometimes called it a
growl tone or an undertone.
And then they left.
And I took my recording
of it, which was
done on cassette at the time.
And I went in to my
crystal grid at home,
which is, shall we say, a little
chamber filled with crystals.
And I went to sleep with them.
I woke up the next
morning, went [DEEP GROWL]..
I was like, what?
>>LISA: You can just
access that at any time?
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah.
And it was just
very, very crazy,
because it's said to take
the Tibetan monks sometimes
years to learn.
>>LISA: And you can
recall it instantly.
What is this crystal
grid you're speaking of?
>>GOLDMAN: Oh, that's-- crystals
are a whole other topic that I
worked with.
Have been working and
worked with crystals
for many, many years.
And one of the
very cool things is
that crystals amplify the
power of sound, as well.
And in one of my
books, I have a couple
of chapters on crystal singing,
which is another topic.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>GOLDMAN: But first, I
want to tell you a story.
So I had this experience,
and so did the fellow
that I recorded the monks with.
And a month later, the
monks came back from tour.
They came back to us in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
And the Rinpoche, the
head of the monastery,
and his interpreter came in.
And this fellow and
I went, [DEEP GROWL]..
And the Rinpoche says
something in Tibetan
through his translator.
And his translator says,
Rinpoche say, best in west.
>>LISA: Oh.
That's wonderful.
So you really embodied--
because of your true, beautiful
relationship with sound
and the way that you
honor and know how
to work with sound and
all of its frequencies,
it came through you in
such a wonderful way,
as did the dolphin
sound through the bowls.
>>GOLDMAN: And I have a--
>>LISA: Beautiful.
>>GOLDMAN: Thank you.
A dear friend who's passed
on named Don Campbell,
who wrote many books,
including "The Mozart Effect."
I remember, one time,
Don and I were together.
And I told him this
story, and I did that.
And he said, ah,
that's an example
of harmonic transmission.
I said, what's that?
He said, that's a transmission
occurring through sound.
And oftentimes,
when I teach people,
I really trust that I'm going to
be able to transmit a harmonic
transmission, giving
them some of what I have
so they can, if you
like, empower others
and experience the
extraordinary ability of sound
to heal and transform.
In the beginning was the word.
>>LISA: I so appreciate you
being a steward of sound,
as well as Don Campbell.
Amazing, with "The
Mozart Effect" and what
he did for children
and learning.
Certain ones of you are real--
>>GOLDMAN: He also introduced
my wife, Andi, to me.
So--
>>LISA: Oh, he did?
>>GOLDMAN: Yes.
>>LISA: Oh, that's wonderful.
That is wonderful.
I was not aware that he passed.
>>GOLDMAN: Yeah, he did.
>>LISA: I interviewed
him, and he really
made a beautiful impact on me.
So thank you for honoring
Don Campbell and for you.
You are both stewards of sound.
>>GOLDMAN: Yes, we are.
>>LISA: You are.
You hold the torch
for sound to be
honored to us, the lay people of
sound that just experience it.
And thank you so much for this.
This has been a wonderful
interview and experience.
>>GOLDMAN: I would like
to suggest that everyone,
everyone, is a sound healer.
Because everyone
can learn to use
their voice on some level or
Tibetan bowls or tuning forks
or whatever.
They can learn to use
and experience it.
And once you do that, it's
like you're opening up
your senses to a higher level.
And it's almost like
you get a superpower.
>>LISA: Oh, we'll take it.
We'll take it.
By the way, I ask my guests, and
you have already answered this.
But what is your biggest
why, your biggest
reason that you do all you do?
>>GOLDMAN: My biggest why is,
why can't we all get along?
Why do we have to be in
competition as opposed
to cooperation?
And that's one of the reasons
why we do World Sound Healing
Days.
Why can't we be
compassionate to each other?
We have created some fairly
intense problems on this planet
at this point.
But by working together, that
which we created, we can fix.
And so I wonder, why
haven't we done this yet?
>>LISA: Why can't we just be
in harmony with each other?
>>GOLDMAN: That's right.
That's right.
>>LISA: Speaking of
harmony, could you
play that beautiful
Tibetan bowl as I
say thank you to the audience?
>>GOLDMAN: I would love to.
Thank you so much.
It's been a real
pleasure to be here
and to be able to share
with you and the audience.
Are you ready?
The dolphin bowl.
[REVERBERATING CLANG]
>>LISA: Thank you.
Thank you to you,
Jonathan Goldman,
for being the steward
of sound that you are.
And thank you for being
a part of this show
and for sharing
this hour with me.
Your energy makes
this show happen.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.
[REVERBERATING CLANG]
[MUSIC PLAYING]